[Music]
let's go let's go let's go Roxy wants to
see if she can help Moya reach an
important milestone in his
rehabilitation
at just a few days old
Moya nearly drowned as a result he's
developed a deep-rooted fear of water
months of therapy have rebuilt his
confidence today he faces a big
challenge we're going down to the big
dam and trying to help him get over his
fear of water let's go see I'm just
gonna walk straight in and see what
happens
even with Roxy and Josephine encouraging
him
Moyo isn't keen you know they say
elephants don't forget and perhaps he
will never forget his trauma but at
least if we can show him that it can be
a bit of fun we can sort of retrain his
brain to cope with that early memory so
hopefully he'll just settle we'll just
go slowly slowly slowly after some
gentle reassurance from Roxy
Moyo finally takes the plunge
this is awesome really awesome it's
better than I anticipated but I think it
helps being in the water as his
confidence builds he begins to enjoy the
experience
14 months of around-the-clock care and
therapy have led to this moment
little normal thing Lewis milestone and
it's one that I've actually been
dreaming about just to swim with with
more properly yeah no I genuinely off I
love that marry me laughter so it's
great
andthe Moyo it's a huge step forward in
his long journey back to the wild
reassurance and they just want to please
you you know to begin if he was doing it
to please me I mean he he started to
have funny and I just love that about
Ellie's it's wonderful
this is my chance to get a closer look
at the pups
[Music]
I cannot believe and I'm this close to
move bucks a day
is beyond my wildest dreams
at this distance you can really get the
feel of these pumps and the reason for
being so close is really just to try and
distinguish one from the other
it seems that the smallest papa is the
most dominant wonder there's not much
any size wise but just being this close
you can tell that one is marginally
smaller but considered a more dominant
it's the dominant part but it seems to
be the most adventurous one they can
rank in order this super adventurous
adventurous and stay home
seems to be seen that one stays behind
and it's gonna encourage but others to
head further out when they're together
I can see a hierarchy between the pops
but it's still difficult to tell them
apart no I'm in a unique position to see
how they develop
[Music]
petronella rhinos are all at different
stages of rehabilitation some are large
enough to roam free and a wild reserve
but rescue babies need care around the
clock and baby mangie is her biggest
challenge yet
Manji means splice of the stars and he's
a star
this is starring my life he's the
youngest rhino that petronella has ever
rescued just two days old his mother was
killed by poachers for her horn and he
too was attacked with a machete and
received near fatal head injuries
in every rescue the first 48 hours are
crucial Petra Nell didn't leave Maji
side you are so small and so skinny the
black loss was immense and I called
everyone I know I just know hey we're
going to save this one and after intense
medical treatment doctors managed to
save him
Manji is the survivor of survivors he
said brilliantly the one I'm very very
proud of him and I love him I love him
to bits
Manji now needs to learn how to be a
wild rhino and Petra now is determined
that he and all her orphans return to
where they belong there was never a
choice for me in looking after these
giants
it's a journey it's a lifelong
commitment I want them to be free I want
him to be in the wall white rhinos are
highly social mammals and a crucial part
of their rehabilitation is to become
part of a herd since arriving
Manji has been living in this small
intensive care unit with other rescued
baby rhinos
and petronella is pleased with the
progress he's making you know you would
once that will have to fight for
territory so he needs to be strong in
character he needs to be a leader and
that's what I want and I see it in him I
can clearly see it in him he's a fighter
he wanted to live definitely he wants to
live but this will not be his permanent
home we want to release him back into
the world they heard animals they like
the socialism they played a mad ball if
I see him doing well in that stages I
know you will do well outside Lee mangi
is now strong enough to learn how to
fend for himself and his whole world is
about to change
what did the guy say where did they find
him apparently there was a couple
walking along the beach this morning and
they heard him crying they make a really
loud crying noise when they're not with
their mothers and so they found them and
they looked everywhere for the mom but I
couldn't find her anywhere that's when
they called 911
this is definitely a newborn that we're
dealing with here this is going to be
tricky
the first stop is the centers clinic for
a thorough check over so I'm just gonna
look over his body a little bit and see
if we see any kind of wounds or anything
that's abnormal
he looks good I don't see any wounds at
all so that's good let's turn him over
and look at his belly so his belly
button the umbilical cord is gone but
it's still inflamed so it looks like the
umbilical cord came off very recently
it's really gripping all night the last
thing that goes is their grip the fact
that he still has an extremely strong
grip I mean that's really really good
he's actually 275 grams very small and
he's at the bottom of the normal weight
range for two-toed sloths honestly he's
just so tiny that before we give him a
proper name I think we'll just call him
tiny tiny is the smallest sloth that Sam
has ever looked after and at this age
one of the biggest risks is dehydration
it's critical that Sam can get fluids
into him fast
oh my gosh look good job bud
that's amazing that's this is like the
best result that we could possibly hope
for because not only does he want to
drink but he's clearly knows what he's
doing he's just so you would think
you'll asleep Tony how how much fluids
you need to get inside there if I could
get five milliliters in him then I think
that that would be a pretty good place
to start for now and at the next meeting
in a couple hours I'll try again and
just keep going like that throughout the
day
tiny is just so small I don't think I've
ever seen a baby animal this vulnerable
and now for Sam it's gonna be a massive
commitment she's gonna look after him
24/7 feeding him every few hours she's
probably not gonna get much sleep Horace
was rescued about five months ago just
like Harriet its thought his mum was hit
by a car he was just found sitting by
her body he was not even two weeks old
he was very traumatized very dehydrated
and he's made a really good recovery and
he has created this amazing life for
himself at Twala but as much as it's
it's lovely for her ass to have a serval
and a die cat and a dog and domestic
kittens as friends it would be really
good for him to actually start learning
about being a monkey and this could be
his big chance another orphan has just
arrived at the center this is Jackie she
is also a nervous um little bit younger
than Horace she's probably three and a
half months old now what excellent girl
Hey
[Music]
Jackie lost her mama - and is still very
traumatized she's gonna need lots of
love and reassurance but if she can form
a relationship with Horace that would
also be great for her because obviously
the first comforting thing for her would
be to be with another monkey it's an
important meeting if they get on Horace
will help Jackie become more confident I
am right here Jackie so you don't need
to freak okay we can just do our own
thing okay do you think and Jackie will
teach Horace what it's like to play
climb and learn with his own kind
don't you Jackie be nice
come on let's be friends Oh oh good girl
well done Horace and you're being such a
gentleman
I'm very proud of you they are getting
on so well you know Mikey fit into
everything and now what we have to fold
monkeys there's gonna be no peace Horace
and Jackie can now grow up together here
at swallow
and Sarah hopes that when they're older
they will join the Centers monkey troupe
I do my best to teach them what what I
can but there is no better way for them
to learn then from each other
[Music]